## Non-Parametric Synthetic Controls

NOTE: This repository contains the code of my master thesis in which I analyzed different non-parametric estimation methods for synthetic controls. Below you can find the abstract of the paper. All the functions are in the file `Code/functions.R`.

#### Abstract
*Synthetic control groups are a popular method to deal with imperfect controls when analyzing policy effects in social sciences. However, they too rely on assumptions that might not be given in certain settings. In this thesis, we propose multiple methods to non-parametrically estimate synthetic control groups. The methods we developed are based on distance measures to compute the explicit weights of synthetic control groups. The idea is that this would help when dealing with non-linearities in the data. Further we also make an argument that using explicit weights is not always necessary and non-parametric regressions can be used instead. In two different simulation studies we then tested the performance of the proposed methods and show that they indeed work better than the classical parametric methods, when applied to non-linear data, both in terms of the prediction error and the deviance of the true to the estimated constant treatment effect. Therefore, we conclude that a careful investigation of the data is necessary when using synthetic control groups and that when confronted with non-linearities and unknown underlying processes, the non-parametric estimation methods give the better results than the parametric ones.*
